[Excel] (Custom functions) Add synchronous support article (#5535)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/custom-functions-synchronous.md

---
title: Synchronous custom functions
description: Use synchronous custom functions to support evaluation and conditional format processes in Excel.
ms.date: 12/09/2025
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Synchronous custom functions

> Synchronous custom functions allow evaluate and conditional format processes to run in Excel simultaneously with the custom function. Enable synchronous support when your custom function needs to run in tandem with any of the Excel processes listed in this article. Custom functions that don't support synchronous operations return an error such as `#CALC!` or `#VALUE!` when they run at the same time as these Excel processes.

Reviewer: Is it standard in the custom functions world to use the verb "evaluate" as a noun? Can we use the noun instead? As per style guide, use "enable" not "allow".

```suggestion
Synchronous custom functions enable the evaluation and conditional format processes to run in Excel simultaneously with the custom function. Enable synchronous support when your custom function needs to run in tandem with any of the Excel processes listed in this article. Custom functions that don't support synchronous operations return an error such as `#CALC!` or `#VALUE!` when they run at the same time as these Excel processes.
```

Author: Great feedback, thank you!

> [!WARNING]
> Synchronous custom functions don't support write operations with Office JavaScript APIs, such as using `Range.values` to set a cell value. Calling a write operation in a synchronous custom function may cause Excel to freeze. Do not use write operations in synchronous custom functions.

## Excel processes supported by synchronous custom functions

The following actions and processes work with synchronous custom functions.

> ### Supported evaluate actions

Reviewer: better?
```suggestion
### Supported evaluation actions
```
